---
layout: post
title:  "Beware of MacKeeper - My Review"
redirect_from:
   - /beware-mackeeper-review
date:   2012-01-22 05:08:42 +0100
categories: best domain registrar
description: I downloaded MacKeeper to give it a try, to see if it was as useful as they claimed it to be. I ran a system scan and found some issues, most seemed to be uncleared caches for programs and it seemed f
---

I downloaded MacKeeper to give it a try, to see if it was as useful as they claimed it to be. I ran a system scan and found some issues, most seemed to be uncleared caches for programs and it seemed fine to let MacKeeper get rid of the almost 1 GB I had stored up over time. Right after that is when the problems started. All my fonts, about 500 or so, were gone and all my bookmarks, saved passwords and sessions were also missing. This got me pretty mad but I contacted support and asked them nicely if they could help me with the issue. They told me to restart my computer and that that would fix the issues. I didn't see how it would help but I did and nothing changed. I got back with the same support guy and he would not respond now when I asked for more suggestions, a few other support guys seemed to join the session and finally someone gave me a 10 step guide on how I should duplicate the problem and record it with screenshots as well. They also needed a bunch of my log files and system info which I did not feel like sending this company. I checked the log files myself but they didn't tell me much more than that my cache had been cleared for a bunch of programs. At this point I also went ahead and uninstalled MacKeeper which was much easier than I thought it would be. However to my surprise after uninstalling MacKeeper still had 6 or so files still left on my system that I had to delete manually. After doing more research I found others complaining about these files in addition to other issues where MacKeeper would prevent Mail or Skype from even launching. MacKeeper are also very unethical when it comes to their advertising, using popups and pop under ads that alert users to risks on their system, this program almost seems like some kind of malware. I would think twice before even trying this software on your Mac. So how did I fix my issues? Well I was able to recover a backup profile for my firefox which I create daily so almost nothing was lost there. All my fonts have been reinstalled again but for some reason Photoshop still gives me alerts telling me that the fonts are not available all though I can use them. So thanks to MacKeeper I am still having issues with my fonts. Don't even try MacKeeper!