---
layout: post
title:  "Time to get started with Zend Framework"
redirect_from:
   - /time-started-zend-framework
date:   2012-02-18 15:26:43 +0100
categories: best domain registrar
description: I have been developing with PHP for a while now and as I am learning more and more about OOP with C# I got interested in more OOP based programming with PHP. I picked up a few books on more advanced P
---

I have been developing with PHP for a while now and as I am learning more and more about OOP with C# I got interested in more OOP based programming with PHP. I picked up a few books on more advanced PHP programming which explains how to use classes and the like with PHP and it seems fairly similar to C# in its most basic form at least. While doing more research on  PHP I stumbled across Zend Framework, I had heard about it before and I sort of knew what it was but I had never considered using it. But upon further reading of the documentation and what others had to say it really got me interested. So since I was learning more advanced PHP i figured why not throw in something like Zend Framework as well? I have not gotten very far but I am making and testing out some initial applications but progress is slow since I am also doing OOP C# and Discrete Mathematics at the same time. Learning more about Zend got me interested in possibly switching to something better than dreamweaver for my PHP coding, yes I know it's bad but I never felt that I needed anything better. At the moment I have started using NetBeans which seems pretty nice. I have yet to take a look at other IDE's like something Eclipse based. But switching to NetBeans also got me thinking that I should probably clean up my work environment and get a bit more organized with my projects. Currently my projects are almost all always hosted, yes even during development, I like hosting the actual site in the main directory and then in another private directory I will have a duplicate of the site and database that I work on. I of course keep backups of my projects on external drives I have laying around. Anyways since I already have PHP on my Macs I figured I should just keep most of my projects in my NetBeans project folder and work on them locally, should be easier and faster right? :) We will see how it works out. Other than that there is not much going on. Progress is steadily being made with BilligaApan.se, the swedish webshop me and a friend started about 6 months ago. I have a meeting with GoPlus coming up which seems interesting, just got to find time for it. I should also be heading over to PingDom soon, seems like a real interesting company to visit. I also met a new company I hadn't heard about before called Diadrom which as far as I could understand the software to control various systems of cars and trucks and probably more, this might be a nice company where I could potentially take my "Ex-work" for college. Another cool company I spoke to was Student Competitions, check them out and let me know what you think [http://studentcompetitions.com](http://studentcompetitions.com "Student Competitions")