---
layout: post
title:  "My Review Of iOS 7"
redirect_from:
   - /review-ios-7
date:   2013-07-28 13:57:39 +0100
categories: best domain registrar
description: Some of you may be asking yourselves: should I upgrade? I think the ultimate answer to that is of course yes, there are many new features in iOS 7...
---

Some of you may be asking yourselves: should I upgrade? I think the ultimate answer to that is of course yes, there are many new features in iOS 7 and you will want to stay current with updates to make sure your phone stays fast and secure. I like most of the new things in iOS 7 and the new look is ok too, I would have been fine with the old layout though. If anything I could see that they made the lock screen harder to use for young kids and older adults who may not understand how to use it. For example, my father who is in his 50's and uses an iPhone daily did not understand how to unlock my phone, with iOS 7, when borrowing it. One thing that has bothered me is the recent calls screen, I get a lot of calls from unknown numbers who are either new clients or someone who wants to sell me something. Usually I prefer to add these into my contacts to make a note of who they are in case they call again. This brings me to the tiny icon next to the unknown number which I have to click to see more info about the number or add it to my contacts. This icon is so small that I have had trouble pressing it many times and instead I end up clicking the number and making a call to them which is very annoying. Other than that I think iOS 7 is nice and it does bring a lot of new and interesitng things. However I think the user intreface has been left with more bad changes than good ones and for someone who uses their phone for the most basic things may find iOS to be a burden.