---
layout: post
title:  "Fiverr - Find Anything For $5"
redirect_from:
   - /fiverr-find-anything-5-dollars
date:   2013-08-05 22:41:19 +0100
categories: best domain registrar
description: I had heard of Fiverr and similar sites before which let's users post "gi...
---

I had heard of [Fiverr](http://tracking.fiverr.com/SHIb "Fiverr") and similar sites before which let's users post "gigs" and offer their products or services for $5 with additional services available at an extra cost. Last time I checked these sites they seemed to have a fairly low number of users and the services and products offered seemed to be of poor or questionable quality. However, I recently revisited [Fiverr](http://tracking.fiverr.com/SHIb "Fiverr") and signed up for an account right away. Suddently I found lot's of people who would do decent quality work for only $5 and I even got interested in offering my own services! (image removed) On [Fiverr](http://tracking.fiverr.com/SHIb "Fiverr") I found designers offering logo designs and coders converting PSD files to HTML for only $5! I could purchase ad space on popular sites for $5 and some claimed to be permanent! I could get people to do 30 sec informational videos for $5! I found a security expert to test my website with a full report for $5! Someone would hold a sign on the side of a busy street for a full hour for just $5! I was amazed and ready to give this all a try. I also wanted to give it a try and quickly created three of my own gigs, you will find them below! [Write A Web Related Article For Just $5](http://fiverr.com/markustenghamn/write-a-web-related-article--2 "Write A Web Related Article")

[I will translate English to Swedish or Swedish to English For Just $5](http://fiverr.com/markustenghamn/translate-english-to-swedish-or-swedish-to-english "Translate English To Swedish Or Swedish To Englsh")

[I will give you constructive criticism from a programmers perspective for $5](http://fiverr.com/markustenghamn/give-you-constructive-criticism-from-a-programmers-perspective "I will give you constructive criticism from a programmers perspective for $5")

Now it's time to get back to work, we will see if I get any sales in the next few days :)

### Updated: My Review

 I have now been using [Fiverr](http://tracking.fiverr.com/SHIb "Fiverr") for 6 days and I feel pretty good. My gig to write a web related article has made 3 sales and I have earned $12. That's great but it's not even close to what I personally feel that it is worth. I should really be charging closer to $0.05 per word not less than $0.01 which I currently am. At the current rate I am making around $4, but then again it's money I wouldn't have if I played some games or goofed off instead. The article writing wasn't a hard and boring task either, I enjoyed my orders and probably spend a little extra time reading about the topics. I have written about entrepreneurship and startups which is something I am interested in. I also found plenty of new and cool sites which I had never heard of before or simply forgotten about. This gave me new ideas which could lead to improvements on current startups or future startups. I also got to practice my writing skills. But back to [Fiverr](http://tracking.fiverr.com/SHIb "Fiverr"), it's a great site, but it's probably not for me. I will keep doing orders and keep my account active but I will probably lower the amount of work I offer. For anyone else looking at trying this it seems that the easiest way to make a living off of [Fiverr](http://tracking.fiverr.com/SHIb "Fiverr") is to start cheap and learn how things work. Once you get reviews and earn a few levels you will be able to charge more money and be able to take on multiple orders. With a higher level you will also be more credible towards buyers. Another important thing is your description, you really need to sell here and do so quickly. I will be honest and admit that my own ads are not very good at the moment but I did win a few sales. Please let me know your own experience with [Fiverr](http://tracking.fiverr.com/SHIb "Fiverr") and feel free to comment and ask me any questions!