---
layout: post
title:  "The Best Git Client Is Coming To Windows!"
redirect_from:
   - /best-git-client-coming-windows
date:   2016-07-11 17:44:40 +0100
categories: best domain registrar
description: I was recently invited to test out the Tower for Windows beta and it is now public and available to everyone, head over to the sign up page to tr
---

I was recently invited to test out the Tower for Windows beta and it is now public and available to everyone, head over to the [sign up page](https://www.git-tower.com/p/windows-beta) to try it for yourself right now! Tower has been a great tool for me as a web developer and programmer. As I get more and more serious about the work I do, and as the projects get more complicated, I feel that the need for something like Git becomes really important to keep track of things. This is especially true for things that others work on, I like to be able to easily see what has been changed and I want others to have an easy way to review and critique my code. Tower for mac was one of the programs I used a lot when I was getting started with git and it helped me learn git in the beginning. At the moment I have to admit that Tower is not used very often as it my favorite PHP IDE has an integrated git client, see [my review of the best PHP IDE here](http://tenghamn.com/best-php-ide-jetbrains-phpstorm-review-2013). However Tower is really great and it is my go to program when I am not working with PHP or if I need to fix something. The interface is super simple to use and easy to understand, many services like Github and Gitlab are integrated making it easy to get started with projects. I know I learned things like solving conflicts with the diff viewer in Tower, stashing and unstashig changes has also been super valuable to master. The best part of all of this is that you don't need git installed, trust me you don't want to have to manage a git installation when things go wrong. All of this that I have had on the mac is now on Windows and I have used it to manage some of my projects and it's great. I am impressed that they are moving forward with such a great product and making it available on Windows. If you missed it, you can find the [public sign up page for the beta here](https://www.git-tower.com/p/windows-beta).