---
layout: post
title:  "Time to change the website a bit"
redirect_from:
   - /time-to-change-the-website-a-bit
date:   2016-01-16 20:12:37 +0100
categories: best domain registrar
description: About 6 months ago I accepted a great job at Key Solutions here in V채ster책s, Sweden where I live which has kept me pretty busy lately. I don't have...
---

About 6 months ago I accepted a great job at Key Solutions here in V채ster책s, Sweden where I live which has kept me pretty busy lately. I don't have time to write as much as I did before and and the time has also given me time to think about what I really want to publish here. The blog will be more personal from now on and less promotional. I want to share random thoughts and ideas that I have during the day which might result in some shorter posts. I also want to share my knowledge and solutions and perhaps contribute a bit to open source libraries when I get the chance. As you may have noticed my blog has a much cleaner and simpler look which I love, it looked messy in the past. Anyways to get started with the new blog let's take a look at some of my interesting projects which are free to use and open sourced. You have the iOS app that I created for my blog which simply reads my rss feed and publishes it in the app. It is available on the app store, simply search for "Markus Tenghamn" and you will find it. The complete source code can be found on github here: https://github.com/markustenghamn/Markus-Tenghamn-iOS-App Oh and feel free to follow me on Github here https://github.com/markustenghamn and ping me if you want me to take a look at an interesting project. Recently I also made my first real contribution to a Github project, it's not much but if anyone needs Swedish localization for carbon on laravel you will find it here https://github.com/LaravelRUS/localized-carbon/pull/70 Anyways, currently I am messing around with nodejs, redis and beanstalk to get a laravel installation working, I'm sure I will have something to say about it soon so stay tuned for more interesting posts.